cosmos-api/README.rst, before:

==========
Cosmos API
==========

This module exposes Cosmos functionality as a REST API and offers a minimal web
application for managing some account details.

---------------
Management page
---------------

The web application is integrated with the TU|Id service as authentication
provider so if you plan to use Cosmos, you first need to get a TU account.  The
first time you access Cosmos you will be asked to authorize the service and you
should register you SSH public key.  Follow the on-screen instructions.

Once registered you will get your API key and API secret to configure the
client-side tools.

--------
REST API
--------

Despite Cosmos functionality is exposed as a RESTful API you don't need to
write your own client to use it, you can leverage the ``cosmos-cli`` module and
operate from your command line.  However, API details are roughly described
in `API.rst <API.rst>`_ just in case a tightly integrated solution is needed.

----------
Deployment
----------

To create a distributable zip ``cosmos-api/dist/cosmos-api-<version>.zip``::

    $ sbt
    $ project cosmos-api
    $ dist

Unzip the archive in ``/opt/pdi-cosmos`` and make the contained ``start`` script
executable.  Then you need to copy and edit ``application.conf.sample`` to
``/opt/pdi-cosmos/etc/cosmos-api.conf`` as follows:

- General settings::

    application.baseurl="http://<host address>"
    application.secret="<long random string different in each deployment>"
    db.default.host="<database host>"
    db.default.name="<database name>"
    db.default.user="<database user name>"
    db.default.pass="<cosmos user password>"

- To have a link to cosmos CLI: ``cli.url="http://host/cosmos.egg"``

- To get more debugging information in the browser: ``application.mode=dev``

- To create cosmos-api tables on service start: ``evolutionplugin=enabled``

- IAL settings: configure the keys starting with ``ial.`` as IAL component documentation specifies.

- Service manager settings: configure the keys starting with ``ambari.`` and
``hdfs.`` as Service Manager component documentation specifies.

Apart from this, logging is configured by creating a file named
``/opt/pdi-cosmos/etc/logback.conf`` with a configuration similar to the
following::

   <configuration>
             <appender name="STDOUT" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
                   <encoder>
                           <pattern>%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n</pattern>
                   </encoder>
             </appender>
             <appender name="FILE" class="ch.qos.logback.core.FileAppender">
                     <file>/opt/pdi-cosmos/var/log/cosmos-api.log</file>
                     <encoder>
                             <pattern>%date %level [%thread] %logger{10} [%file:%line] %msg%n</pattern>
                     </encoder>
             </appender>
             <logger name="es.tid.cosmos" level="DEBUG">
                   <appender-ref ref="STDOUT" />
             </logger>
             <root level="INFO">
                   <appender-ref ref="FILE" />
             </root>
   </configuration>

The Cosmos API comes with an init.d script which can be found at
``scripts/cosmos-api`` and can be installed by copying the file to ``/etc/init.d``
and::

    chmod +x /etc/init.d/cosmos-api
    chkconfig --add /etc/init.d/cosmos-api
    chkconfig cosmos-api on

After that, the classical ``/etc/init.d/cosmos-api start|stop|status`` command
will be available.

-------
Testing
-------

Some of the test require a local MySQL instance. It is assumed a `test/test`
account to manipulate a `cosmostest` database by default but is is easily
configurable in the properties file at `it/resources/test.properties`.

To run only those tests from the SBT console::

    it:test-only * -- -n HasExternalDependencies

And to exclude those externally dependant tests::

    it:test-only * -- -l HasExternalDependencies

Commit message:

Support multiple auth providers at the same time
Several auth providers can be configured at application.conf and at
least one of them should be enabled. See sample file for details.

cosmos-api/README.rst, after:

==========
Cosmos API
==========

This module exposes Cosmos functionality as a REST API and offers a minimal web
application for managing some account details.

---------------
Management page
---------------

The web application is integrated with the TU|Id service as authentication
provider so if you plan to use Cosmos, you first need to get a TU account.  The
first time you access Cosmos you will be asked to authorize the service and you
should register you SSH public key.  Follow the on-screen instructions.

Once registered you will get your API key and API secret to configure the
client-side tools.

--------
REST API
--------

Despite Cosmos functionality is exposed as a RESTful API you don't need to
write your own client to use it, you can leverage the ``cosmos-cli`` module and
operate from your command line.  However, API details are roughly described
in `API.rst <API.rst>`_ just in case a tightly integrated solution is needed.

----------
Deployment
----------

To create a distributable zip ``cosmos-api/dist/cosmos-api-<version>.zip``::

    $ sbt
    $ project cosmos-api
    $ dist

Unzip the archive in ``/opt/pdi-cosmos`` and make the contained ``start`` script
executable.  Then you need to copy and edit ``application.conf.sample`` to
``/opt/pdi-cosmos/etc/cosmos-api.conf`` as follows:

- General settings::

    application.baseurl="http://<host address>"
    application.secret="<long random string different in each deployment>"
    db.default.host="<database host>"
    db.default.name="<database name>"
    db.default.user="<database user name>"
    db.default.pass="<cosmos user password>"

- At least one of the auth providers should be enabled (``enabled`` attribute)
or the application will fail to initialize

- To have a link to cosmos CLI: ``cli.url="http://host/cosmos.egg"``

- To get more debugging information in the browser: ``application.mode=dev``

- To create cosmos-api tables on service start: ``evolutionplugin=enabled``

- IAL settings: configure the keys starting with ``ial.`` as IAL component documentation specifies.

- Service manager settings: configure the keys starting with ``ambari.`` and
``hdfs.`` as Service Manager component documentation specifies.

Apart from this, logging is configured by creating a file named
``/opt/pdi-cosmos/etc/logback.conf`` with a configuration similar to the
following::

   <configuration>
             <appender name="STDOUT" class="ch.qos.logback.core.ConsoleAppender">
                   <encoder>
                           <pattern>%d{HH:mm:ss.SSS} [%thread] %-5level %logger{36} - %msg%n</pattern>
                   </encoder>
             </appender>
             <appender name="FILE" class="ch.qos.logback.core.FileAppender">
                     <file>/opt/pdi-cosmos/var/log/cosmos-api.log</file>
                     <encoder>
                             <pattern>%date %level [%thread] %logger{10} [%file:%line] %msg%n</pattern>
                     </encoder>
             </appender>
             <logger name="es.tid.cosmos" level="DEBUG">
                   <appender-ref ref="STDOUT" />
             </logger>
             <root level="INFO">
                   <appender-ref ref="FILE" />
             </root>
   </configuration>

The Cosmos API comes with an init.d script which can be found at
``scripts/cosmos-api`` and can be installed by copying the file to ``/etc/init.d``
and::

    chmod +x /etc/init.d/cosmos-api
    chkconfig --add /etc/init.d/cosmos-api
    chkconfig cosmos-api on

After that, the classical ``/etc/init.d/cosmos-api start|stop|status`` command
will be available.

-------
Testing
-------

Some of the test require a local MySQL instance. It is assumed a `test/test`
account to manipulate a `cosmostest` database by default but is is easily
configurable in the properties file at `it/resources/test.properties`.

To run only those tests from the SBT console::

    it:test-only * -- -n HasExternalDependencies

And to exclude those externally dependant tests::

    it:test-only * -- -l HasExternalDependencies
